service --status-all
Purpose: Displays the status of all services on a system.
How it works:
It lists all the services managed by the system’s init system (like SysVinit or Upstart).
The list includes a "+" sign for running services and a "-" for stopped services.
Usage: Useful for checking which services are running or stopped.
2. sudo service sendmail
Purpose: Manages the sendmail service, which is used for sending emails.
How it works:
With sudo, it provides administrative privileges required to manage services.
You can use commands like:
sudo service sendmail start - Start the sendmail service.
sudo service sendmail stop - Stop the sendmail service.
sudo service sendmail restart - Restart the sendmail service.
If used without an additional argument, it might display usage instructions or status (depending on the system).
3. ps
Purpose: Displays information about active processes.
How it works:
Without options, it shows processes running in the current shell.
Usage: Useful for quickly checking what is running.
4. ps -u
Purpose: Displays processes of a specific user.
How it works:
Lists all processes owned by the specified user (you may need to provide the username, e.g., ps -u root).
Usage: Helps monitor processes associated with a particular user.
5. ps -a
Purpose: Shows processes for all users except session leaders.
How it works:
Displays all processes in the current terminal excluding session leaders (typically the terminal itself).
Usage: Helpful for multi-user environments to view others' processes.
6. ps -l
Purpose: Displays detailed information about processes in long format.
How it works:
Includes additional details like priority, process ID (PID), parent process ID (PPID), nice value, etc.
Usage: Useful for debugging and performance analysis of processes.
7. cat >> abc
Purpose: Appends input from the terminal to the file abc.
How it works:
cat reads from standard input.
The >> operator appends the input to an existing file or creates the file if it doesn’t exist.
After running cat >> abc, you can type your input. To save and exit, press Ctrl+D.
Usage: Useful for adding content to a file interactively.
8)iotop

Displays real-time disk I/O usage by processes.
Useful for identifying processes causing high disk activity.
9)nice and renice

Adjusts the priority of a process.
Example: nice -n 10 command starts a command with a lower priority.
10)strace

Traces system calls made by a process.
Example: strace -p <PID> monitors the system calls of a running process.
